init draft for collaboration (#1)
kaizentm/enhancements: veps/sig-compute/hypervisor-abstraction.md

# VEP #NNNN: Hypervisor Abstraction Layer

## Release Signoff Checklist

Items marked with (R) are required *prior to targeting to a milestone / release*.

- [ ] (R) Enhancement issue created, which links to VEP dir in [kubevirt/enhancements]
- [ ] (R) Target version is explicitly mentioned and approved
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria filled

## Overview

> Introduce a Hypervisor Abstraction Layer that lets KubeVirt plug in multiple hypervisor backends through a consistent contract, while keeping today's KVM-first behavior unchanged. For the MVP we scope the contract to the pieces already exercised in code—device selection and domain tweaks—so HyperV Layered can merge without waiting on a broader refactor. We also outline follow-on enhancements that can grow the abstraction once we gather feedback.

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
Introduce a Hypervisor Abstraction Layer that lets KubeVirt plug in multiple hypervisor backends through a consistent contract, while keeping today's KVM-first behavior unchanged. For the MVP we scope the contract to the pieces already exercised in code—device selection and domain tweaks—so Hyper-V Layered can merge without waiting on a broader refactor. We also outline follow-on enhancements that can grow the abstraction once we gather feedback.
```
